As helpful as AI chatbots can be in everyday life, sometimes people might forget that they are communicating with an algorithm, whose conscience and moral compass are under questioning. This is one of the main thoughts that could appear while reading Miles Klee’s work “People Are Losing Loved Ones to AI-Fueled Spiritual Fantasies” published on Rollingstone website. However, even though the topic of an article is extremely relevant and fascinatin to most of us, it is safe to estimate that the commercial purposes are the main reason for its appearance. By analysing the article with such parameters as Rhetorical context, tone and style usage it will be easier to understand the author’s motivation and point of view.

Miles Klee sets up the hook by stating that “Self-styled prophets are claiming they have
‘awakened’ chatbots and accessed the secrets of the universe through ChatGPT” (). The article introduces the reader to a topic with an example of a couple that has become a victim of artificial inteligence’s “philosophical thoughts”. After exploring two similar examples, the author shifts to OpenAI’s opinion on occurring issues. As a logical  continuation, two possible reasons for ChatGPT’s behaviour are discussed: technical and spiritual. The author finishes with another example of bot’s improper response, however now the user has not been affected and has tried to study responses of an artificial intelligence. Conclusion of the article is blurry, eventually leaving the reader open-ended question whether artificial intelligence’s behavior is a technological breakthrough, a higher spiritual truth, or just a simple glitch in a neural network no one can completely understand. Even though the author has not stated any clear thesis, the main point of an article can be summarized in one sentence: Artificial Intelligence’s features of behavior might have a negative impact on people’s mentality.


The author’s job directly affects his motivation for writing the current article. As the website states, Miles Klee is a culture writer at RollingStone company, whose topics are ranging “from extreme fandoms and conspiracy theories to micro-celebrities and the latest viral memes” (). Therefore his main priority is writing eye-catching articles to gain the magazine’s more popularity. Additionally Miles published two books: “Ivyland” and “True False.” Both of the books were published more than 10 years ago and have mixed reviews (). Thus Miles Klee explored his abilities in different types of writing, eventually staying with writing about extraordinary stories happening all over the Internet.


In spite of the fact that the topic seems too difficult for an inexperienced mind, the author managed to make the intended audience as large as possible by the tone and style he has chosen to write with. Most of the article consists of the detailed stories of Artificial Intelligence affecting couple’s lives. Miles Klee has filled every paragraph with quotations or paraphrases, extending subtopics’ length and making the examples feel more personal. No purely scientific terms have been used, even though they might be required for proving correctness of certain statements. To make matters worse, the only examples discussed in the article refer to ChatGPT chatbot, making the sample not large enough for any concrete statements. This type of writing sacrifices scientific correctness of a story to make an article easily readable for anyone, even someone without extensive knowledge of the core of Artificial Intelligence’s structure. It also might be a reason for the author to leave the text open-ended.



The author chose an extremely popular and disturbing topic, therefore making it easier to promote the article into masses. Artificial Intelligence is extremely helpful nowadays, especially chat bots, whom you can address any of your questions to. Additionally Miles Klee mentioned the appearance of influencers that use the occurred situation for their own good, “actively exploiting this phenomenon, presumably drawing viewers into similar fantasy worlds.” An article which states to have found a potential flaw in everyday util makes a reader want to be aware of the situation, therefore making the article attention grabbing. A feeling of the danger that could impact anyone might stimulate a reader to share this story with his family, friends and others.


The details of Rollingstone website’s design, where the story appeared, confirms the commercial purpose of the article. Fourteen hyperlinks have been added into the article. Most of them lead to pages on the Rollingstone website that list articles related to the story. Even though these links may be considered as an informal citation method, their main purpose is to make users shift from an article to an article, eventually staying on the website. Additionally the website removes an ability to read articles again unless the user has a paid subscription to the Rllingstone magazine. The website is also filled with popup advertisements, which could be removed with the already mentioned subscription. On account of these observations it is reasonable to assume that the article’s appearance on this specific website has the same purpose as any other article - to make a reader purchase the magazine.

In conclusion, you should not read articles on the Internet.

Note:
no conclusion yet
no citation yet
no check for punctuation or grammatical errors



Works Cited

